[country music]
[Peter] Nice ride Steve.
-[Steve] Guy asked fifteen hundred bucks.
-Are you serious?
I spent my bill money man.
I spent my…
My phone, my cable, everything.
Man I spent it and bought…
fifteen hundred bucks.
-You're styling Steve.
-I was offered six grand the next day.
Steve, thanks for meeting up, buddy.
Oh, I love it.
For those that watch the channel,
a month and a half ago?
-Yeah something like that.
-We met up.
You came in
at the end of the video randomly.
I didn't want you to go
'cause I was in a hurry. Remember?
Yeah. Had to come back
and get Steve's story.
A lot of people asked, Steve,
because you grew up here.
-I grew up here.
-You got the stories.
And we're gonna start out there.
One of your more interesting parts of life,
running drugs through the mangroves.
-We're gonna show you.
-Okay.
And then we'll get into your story,
get into the deep dive local stuff.
Family's been here since the 1850s.
[Peter gasps] And you're saying
this is the last of these?
This is the last of that.
Aaron's a local. He owns the place.
He's born and raised here.
His grandfather
was the very first stone crabber.
-Yeah.
-[Aaron] Ernest Hamilton.
Ernest Hamilton.
So he goes back a long ways.
-Aaron's endangered species?
-Most certainly.
Yeah. We had stone crab stuffing,
stone crab anything.
Yeah. Where people like me
were eating deer meat and stuff
his family was eating stone crabs.
'Cause they didn't know
what to do with them to begin with.
-Let me get in the rope.
-You don't need it.
-Okay.
-I got you.
[Peter] Oh that's cool.
-Ain't it cool?
-Yeah.
I love this.
-One finger.
-It's old school.
[winch whirrs]
[Aaron] They built things
back in the good old days to have.
Get a little grease on it,
a little tender love and care it'll last…
-[Steve] That's what she said.
-[laughter]
Come on, man.
All right. Thank you Aaron.
[Steve] You can untie me.
Just turn that loose. Yeah.
[country music]
Hold on to your hat 'cause if it flies off
we ain't gonna go back and get it.
All right.
[music continues]
Steve that's cool. Right at this area
you start to smell salt water.
Because we're getting
further closer to the Gulf.
Peter if you look way down there
and see the furthest island sticking out…
-Yep.
-That's called Pavilion Key.
Right on the end of it
there used to be a light right there.
Usually we would meet right there
and go out maybe a mile,
to three, four miles.
We had 24-foot boats.
That's what we ended up with
in the very end of the smuggling.
That were 10-foot wide
had two motors on the back
and a little console like this.
The rest was open for throwing bales.
Okay. What year are we talking Steve?
For them style boats '81.
-81.
So the drugs were coming from where? Cuba?
No Colombia.
The bosses which was my cousin,
he had friends in Miami
that were Cubans
that were married to Colombians.
-Oh.
-So the Colombians would set up deals.
They would send shrimp boats over
to pick up 50,000 pounds.
And then the shrimp boats
would come into the shore.
And then we would go to the shrimp boats
pick it up in smaller boats
and haul it inshore.
Every now and then
you'd get a batch from Jamaica.
And it was junk. Jamaican weed.
All of it back then
compared to today was junk.
-It was everything right?
No just weed.
-Just weed?
-Just weed.
We didn't haul…
Every now and then we would find a bale
that would have a red R or a number on it.
We'd cut it open.
It would be full of Quaalude.
Bags of Quaaludes .
We dumped them overboard.
Well you know getting caught
with marijuana you might get five years.
You get caught with cocaine or Quaaludes
that's another ten.
Or guns. We never hauled guns. Never.
The marijuana smuggling
run from late '70s
up, us, our family, up into '85.
[Peter] So you get your shipment
and then you just start blasting it in.
We'd go through all these different…
We had a watch out that would watch for us.
And we would go in.
It's according to where we was taking it.
Everglades, Chokoloskee, to the road,
whichever pass we would go in.
And so were the feds chasing you here?
Oh Lord, son, the feds,
the state, the feds, everybody.
But you know what would happen?
When they would get into here
they'd turn around.
They didn't have GPS.
They couldn't follow us.
Once we got into the island
we didn't worry
'cause we all knew
that they couldn't find us.
-They just didn't want to deal with this?
They didn't know it.
Did you see the oyster bars
running around everywhere?
They didn't know it.
-You just had to get the product this far.
-That's it.
-And you're good?
That's the backside
of where my family lived right here.
Every bit of this island
was brought in by Calusa Indians.
-Seriously?
-Seriously.
Every oyster to shell that you pick up
was brought in by an Indian Calusa.
My family,
when they moved from central Florida,
this is where they come to in the 1850s.
-1850s, your family's been here since?
-They moved to this island.
Oh can we get out there?
We sure can
but we're gonna go to the dock.
Before we get into the island story
how did the family
get into the drug business?
We're fishermen, commercial fishermen.
When the National Park
took over in '47
they promised us
that they would never stop our fishing.
-And they did.
-Okay.
So we didn't have
no more way of living
when they go
"You can't commercial fish no more."
It ain't like we had
a million dollars saved up.
So the marijuana smuggling,
some people were already doing it.
So we just kind of joined in
and it got big.
Our family was the largest
about 30 of us, just family,
was the largest
smuggling operation in South Florida.
We brought in
millions of pounds of weed of marijuana.
-Were you swimming in money back then?
Just unbelievable.
-Swimming?
-Swimming.
-All you want.
-What were you doing with it?
Giving it away buying stuff that…
You understand,
we were poor all of our life.
I never even had a three-Wheeler.
I had three-wheelers,
and air boats, and trucks.
I opened the door of my house one day
and I looked down at my yard
at all the stuff I got and I'm going
I wonder why I'm gonna jail.
-And how old were you
at this time back in '81?
Twenty-something. Early 20s.
-And so you're doing weed so it's not
hardcore pills, it's not heroin.
Pete, nowadays,
if they was to catch us with that weed
they'd give us a pack of rolling papers.
You know what I mean?
It don't mean nothing now.
But you got to think around every point
there's oyster bars coming off.
And if you try to catch me
in the middle of the night
I'mma run your ass aground.
I'd run 'em aground and stop
and say [yells] "Y'all all right?"
They go yeah we're okay a**hole.
-No way. No way.
-Yeah. I've done that a couple times.
Red mangroves they call that
the walking tree because of the roots.
See how the roots
kind of come out and walk out?
-Yeah.
-Call it the walking tree.
I call it an island builder
because if one of those little pods
float along and jump on an oyster bar
and stick up on an oyster bar
and it grows the roots, drops the leaves,
another one grows another one
50 years,
you got all them leaves you got an island.
-It attracts everything?
-Yeah.
It's some of the most amazing nature.
I gotta say.
-All of this leads up into
where I take you buggy riding at.
-We're gonna go up there?
-We're gonna go up there.
Rivers from here
go all the way up to there.
[country music]
[Steve] My great granddaddy,
my momma, which I call her momma.
She was really my grandma.
My father died when I was real young.
My grandmother and grandfather adopted me.
So when I say my momma I mean my grandma
but she actually was my mother.
-They all lived out here?
-Right here. This is where she was born.
1900.
-Were they the only ones?
No.
There was a couple other families.
The Johnsons were out here.
-It's a big island.
-The same one built off the Calusa Shells?
Built off the Calusa Shells.
And then the thousands of years
of the leaves and stuff drop and composite.
My grandfather, great grandfather,
he farmed islands all around here.
And then Watson, who killed people,
he had a 40-acre sugar cane factory.
He was a murderer. He killed Belle Starr.
Yeah this was a bad area.
You asked me earlier
why would people move down here?
They get away after
the turn of the Civil War.
They didn't like the Northern Rule.
Hit that middle post up there Pete
when I get you up to it.
-They just wanted to be free?
They didn't want to have
Northern judges telling them what to do.
-So this is really
the final frontier in the country right?
-Well we call it that a lot.
-California Gold Rush, 1849.
This place in 1849,
just a handful of people right?
There was people
stretched out on the islands.
Now these Calusa Indian Mounds
I may be off just a little bit.
There was 47 of them
throughout from Marco to the Keys.
And people was inhabited on a lot of them.
Excuse me.
They inhabited a lot of them
because they were great farming lands.
My great-grandfather farmed a lot of it.
Matter of fact
he got along good with Watson.
He was part of the crowd that killed him.
Him and my uncle.
Well look this is Sand Fly Island.
At one time there wasn't as many trees
on this place. It was really empty.
This is a map of the island.
This shows the Calusa Indians.
And this is a picture
of my family's homestead
when they lived here on the island.
It's a big house.
It's the second largest home
in the islands.
Watson had the first.
-Okay brief history on Watson.
Who's this guy Watson?
Watson was a man that come…
Old gunfighter from out West.
Okay.
So he moved down here
and he started sugar cane.
And they say that he would kill
some of his helpers instead of paying them.
Shot a lady.
And then other people settled
on some of the islands that he used.
And he didn't want them on there.
And they found one woman.
She was pregnant, gutted.
Floated up on an oyster bar.
So the locals said we can't have this.
They were scared of him. He was a bad man.
So he was one of the only people
that had a boat with a motor in it.
Back then, pop pop pop.
That's what the boat sounded…
They could hear it coming
from all because listen,
there ain't no generators or nothing.
They could hear the boat coming,
so the townsfolk
got together on Chokoloskee.
And they said listen, you're under arrest.
And he said you ain't gonna arrest me
and he pulled up a double barrel shotgun,
and back then they had the paper shells,
and it went bloop instead of going bam.
And when it went bloop,
several people fired and killed him.
My cousin still got one of the guns.
Here's the concrete post.
Some of them where the house was at.
-Right.
-And look to your right.
-There's the cistern they drank out of.
-Okay.
Now if you look on this sign,
there's my granddaddy's name,
Charlie Boggess.
-Oh that's so cool.
-His family were among those pioneers.
My mama was born here in 1900.
Said when she was a kid
growing up here they dug a well.
It's called an artisan well
which means it's free flowing.
There's conc blocks from the house.
That this well
would be seven, eight feet, in the air.
They played in it as a kid.
This were some of the water.
You can drink it.
-So that's nice fresh water.
-It's well water.
But it's fresh. It's not salty at all.
-It's a little teeny salty.
But mama said she used to play in it.
You know when they were kids
it was shooting up six seven foot.
And kids you can imagine.
Probably three four families
lived on this island.
And all the kids would get together
in the summer and play in the water.
Be careful Pete
'cause I imagine this is slippery.
It's been a long time since I walked it.
This is the red mangrove
I was telling you about.
-The walking tree.
-Right.
You can see the roots are walking
and see all the leaves dropping?
-Yep.
-Another thousand years from now
it'll be knee high it'll be hard ground.
And plus it's like compost. It grows.
It'll be good area to grow in.
They clear these trees out.
Used to, they would take the black mangrove
tree and cut it and burn it for coal.
It would go to Key West
and that's what they run in the steamers.
Used it for fires. Used it for heating.
-So Steve
you know your history pretty well.
Well I love history.
That's… you know, I love it.
I love my family's background.
My fourth, fifth, great-grandfather
fought in
the Spanish-American War, the Civil War.
He fought for the United States of America.
He was a commissioner.
He was a mailman.
He wrote a book called
A Veteran of Four Wars.
His name F.C.M. Boggess.
B-O-G-G-E-S-S is his name.
That's my family from Fort Ogden.
And they're still there.
Got roads named after him.
-So you are old Florida, Steve.
My family is old Florida.
-About as old as it gets.
Here before it was a state.
-Before it was a state.
So the Calusas weren't here
by the time the settlers got here right?
-They were long gone.
-I heard that the last Calusa died…
in Cuba.
Okay.
That they went to Cuba.
-Who's this?
-Yeah Darryl.
-He did what?
I don't know if he wants the people
to know but he started it.
He was the biggest smuggler there was.
-Marijuana smuggler.
-[Darryl] Oh we're going home.
Hey Darryl. Say hi to Peter.
Are you working all day today?
-I'll be home.
-You'll be home?
-Can we come by and see ya?
-Sure.
Okay.
This guy here I've almost raised.
-He did.
-That's what he was saying.
-Stayed at my house more than his.
-Yeah.
[Peter] So we're gonna go to his house?
-If you want to.
-Yeah. That would be great.
Now he does boat tours.
Yeah. He's helping out his nephew.
That's all.
[water flowing]
We're gonna go to the Rod and Gun Club.
We're gonna go to Everglades City.
We're gonna go through the channel.
We've done some
marijuana smuggling up into Everglades City
but you got to understand
I'm gonna make a lot of people mad.
Everglades City,
back then the people there,
they didn't compare to us on Chokoloskee.
We were the ones that knew the way around.
We were the ones
that knew how to get there.
-So there are basically two towns here,
Chokoloskee, Everglades City?
-And there's a rival?
-There's a rival.
There used to be a rival.
They used to not get along.
-And now we're gonna Everglades City.
-So Steve, you had
your good hears from '81 to '87.
'85 I was in prison.
The first time I did five years.
Then the second time I was out
in my sons truck,
it had a hunting rifle underneath the seat.
I had my door open
and a deputy walked by and seen it.
Said, "You ain't supposed to have a gun."
Arrested me for
felon in possession of a firearm.
I said I'm just hunting. I'm not…
"Well you can't have it."
I did five years in state prison for that.
-So you went to
federal prison the first time?
-Like a boy scout camp.
-Boy scout camp?
-Boy scout camp.
-Easy?
Eglin Air Force Base.
-Okay, and then how was state prison?
If I woulda went to
state prison the first time
I wouldn't have never went to jail again
'cause it was horrible.
-Wadn't no fun.
-Were you up in Raiford?
I've been all over but I don't think
I ever made it to Raiford.
But I was all over all different prisons.
-That was hardcore?
-Horrible.
Things you can't imagine.
Just dream about prison
in the movies and that's what it was.
When I got out, yes sir,
no sir, I don't speed.
When I get in my truck
and start it before I put it in gear,
I don't break the law.
That put me straight.
-So all your money gone
after that point in time?
By the time I got out, yeah, it was gone.
You know the bad part of it all,
is I missed that much time with my kids.
-Yeah.
-That's what it was.
I look on it now though…
I've got a 20 year old daughter
I raised from a newborn.
If I wouldn't have did all that
I would have never got her.
So I look at it like
it was horrible but in the end
I wouldn't have had my daughter
if I wouldn't have went through all that
'cause I would have never met her mother.
-Right. Life does its weird thing
you could never set up.
So God paid me with having a little girl
and I raised her from a newborn.
Her mother had some problems
and they said that
she couldn't be around Stevie
but we made time
for her mother to see her.
Her mother drowned in a swimming pool.
She had a few beer,
and got in a swimming pool swimming
you know nice and warm
and fell asleep.
-Oh man. Jeez.
-And drownded.
-Everglades City?
-Everglades City.
Home of the rich people.
-Mostly second homes now?
-Most of them.
-So Chokoloskee different?
Totally different people.
Like I said there was a time
to where Everglades people
and Chokoloskee people didn't get along.
Now you guys are good?
Yeah most of the time.
They still some of them's
a little snooty actin'.
They're stone crabbers.
Stone crabbers back then
they made good money.
We were old mullet fishermen,
we pulled nets. We were…
Fishy smelly all the time
and had old boats with motors on it.
They had big crab boats
and they were fancy.
Now I got some good friends that are
from Everglades City we got along with.
That's where one of them lives.
-That smaller home?
-No the big yellow one.
-Oh that one okay.
-Yeah good man.
-Look at the homes.
-Yeah.
They ain't cheap.
That city dock,
my grandfather pulled alongside of
and unloaded a boat
of Cuban rum into his car.
When he ran around a corner
a constable jumped out onto…
You know old '30s with the running boards
down the side of the cars.
When he jumped on it they shot him off
with shotgun.
-Right up here?
-Right there.
See the city was built
all the way down here. Had a streetcar.
This road was houses
and buildings and shops.
We had a…
This was the county seat.
That's where everything happened.
They had a movie theater,
and a garage, and everything.
-And what what happened? A hurricane?
Yeah in 1960, Hurricane Donna.
And after that they moved
everything to Naples
because you know Everglades was small.
Now we're coming up on
the Rod and Gun Club.
It's been here since the Civil War.
-That building?
-Yep.
Still looks just like it inside.
Now Peter,
if you look over here on your left
that's where my family when they moved in
from a Sand Fly Island we was just at.
This is where they lived.
-They came in from the island?
-And come into here.
Now this whole island was clean clear.
There was like
four or five homes on it, all family.
The house burnt down and they moved here.
You had to park over here
and go across to the boat.
No way to get to it.
So this is where all my Thanksgivings
and Sunday dinners after church
this is where we had it.
-So this town was thriving back then?
-Thriving up until Hurricane Donna.
-Okay Rod and Gun Club.
It's a restaurant,
motel, they got some rooms.
They don't use the rooms upstairs
but I think they're redoing them.
Hey this was in the movie Gone Fishing
with Danny Glover and Joe Pesci.
[Steve] No, around the cleat.
[Peter] Now you're a cameraman.
-Oh you know how to tie a boat up.
-Yeah.
I worked on Lake Tahoe one summer
as the boat dude.
I've actually seen it.
I went in here years ago.
-Did you film it?
-A very tiny bit of it.
[Peter] This is the cultural gem.
Oh yeah. It is old world
lacquered up old Florida.
[Steve] Is this not beautiful?
This is unbelievable.
Cash register. They only take cash.
-Walk back here and look.
Look at the fireplace.
-Yep.
-Had presidents and royalty come here.
-Right. Didn't Roosevelt come here?
Yeah, I believe so.
Look at this bar.
It's dark
so the camera's not picking up everything
but you got the pirate theme here.
You didn't really have pirates out here?
-Well yeah there was Pirate Gomez.
That was with Blackbeard.
-He came this far?
-He come on the islands yeah.
He buried treasure
on my family's land
in Fort Ogden.
You can watch it with Josh Gates.
He goes all over the world doing stuff,
finding treasures.
And he was hunting
for the treasure from Pirate
Gomez asked my family, Miss Lady Boggess
if he could put it there
on her property in Fort Ogden
where the Peace River run up.
Sure did. You can see it on TV. Watch it.
Josh Gates has got it on there.
Expedition Unknown.
I want to talk to you about something
happening behind the scenes to all of us.
Our personal data
gets hoovered up by data brokers
and sold all across the Internet.
So earlier this year I found
a solution to this problem, Incogni.
Incogni is
a personal information removal service
that wipes yourself from the Internet.
We have the right
to remove ourselves from these lists.
But to try to do this one by one
would be a full-time job.
I started using Incogni in February
and I've seen exceptional results.
Here's my dashboard where
I've been removed from 1,448 data brokers.
And you can see here all the brokers
that have tried to poach my information.
For me I currently have 237
that are being removed.
So what you need to do
is sign up to Incogni.
And they'll do the consistent
constant in-the-background work
of removing you from these websites.
So I've received way less spam emails,
spam calls, junk mail,
which removes
one of life's biggest annoyances.
Since this is like whack-a-mole
you can't just do this once and be done.
It's a constant process
and that's why having Incogni
working 24-7, 365,
in the background is crucial.
I strongly suggest
getting Incogni's unlimited plan.
Which gives the option to request
custom removals from any website.
There's a huge discount
if you use my link in the description
to get 60% off an annual plan.
Take back your personal data with Incogni.
Click on the link below
www.incogni.com/santenello
to get 60% off their annual plan.
Now back to the story.
Steve, we're now
getting back to your island.
Getting back to Chokoloskee Island.
Many a load of weed has been along
this beach right here in these houses.
-What was your place here? Which one?
The one with the truck backed up to it.
-Oh, that one.
-Yeah
That ain't the original house
but that was my house.
We filled that garage up
I can't tell you how many times.
You gotta remember
we brought in millions of pounds.
-So what about hurricanes now?
-Everybody's used to them.
-You're just used to them.
Where my place is I'm above it.
I don't get none of it.
-But right here I mean…
-They get flooded pretty close.
But the house is lifted up and off.
-Yeah but they still get flooded.
-Yeah.
Steve, I always ask this
because there people
that don't live in the South.
The Confederate flag,
what's it mean to you?
Well my
great-great-great-great-grandfather
fought for the Confederacy in Fort Ogden.
He was with the Calvary so it's history.
You know, them wanting to do away with all
the monuments and stuff,
it's just history.
They're just doing away with history.
You can't you can't rewind it.
It was part of the past.
Let it be and let it stay.
Look how far the tides rose.
-Oh yeah they came up a lot.
Pete, I've enjoyed myself. What about you?
-Oh yeah, no, that was awesome Steve.
Hey I got my first kiss from her.
I've just been under
the water hose. It was so hot.
This is your first kiss?
My first kiss I got from her.
Was that last night?
No, it's been a long time ago.
-Chubby-cubby.
-That was a long time.
How many generations
has your family been here?
Six generations.
Six?!
-Do you miss the early '80s?
-Oh yeah.
That was just fun.
-That was awesome.
-Wasn't it?
Everyone's flush with cash.
She was married to
one of the biggest smugglers around.
There was three main groups,
and her husband was one of the main…
I'll let her finish telling it.
He was just… little big man.
-Was there a clash
between the three groups?
No.
-You guys all got along?
-We all got along pretty much.
Everybody split the money.
-I was telling about Everglades people.
-We didn't like the Everglades people.
We wouldn't even let them
come and play pool at the bar.
-Really?
-Mm-hmm.
What about now?
Everybody's everybody now. Things changed.
Getting to be almost 70.
I don't care anymore.
A lot of locals live here.
Everybody came back home.
I moved away and I just came back.
-Where'd you go to?
-I went up to LaBelle area.
Why'd you come back?
-I miss this place.
-Miss home.
You come across the bridge
and you smell that mud?
-That's home.
-It's in your blood?
-Everyone else is like, woo.
-I'll say one more thing.
My daughter's 20 years old now.
When she comes over the bridge
in Chokoloskee she rolls her windows down.
That's it. You gotta smell that mud.
She goes, [sniffs] "Daddy, I smell home."
-You're home. Saltwater, man.
-Exactly.
-Just no place like this place.
-Right, special.
We played hide-and-go-seek in the water
'Cause we had boats and motors.
Nobody had bicycles and things like that.
We had fun all the time.
People were poor
and when they took the mullet fishing away
what else were they gonna do?
You know, that was our livelihood.
And they took it away and somebody
offered you money to haul some weed in…
Hell yeah.
I mean we're notorious for rum and gators
and bird plumes, and, you know,
we're gonna do the next best thing.
[Steve] Hey Ramona, I'mma back out.
All right.
So Steve, you said
you wanted to make it clear
you're not doing boat tours.
I'm not doing boat tours.
That's a joke.
-It's a joke?
-Yeah.
But I will…
If I got somebody that goes on my buggy
and they want to play around and go see it
I'll take them.
I won't charge them nothing.
If they wanna pay for the fuel
that's up to them.
For those that don't know,
didn't see Steve before,
I met Steve out on his buggy.
And people loved him.
That's why we're here again today.
And I'm gonna leave Steve's link below.
You want the buggy tour,
the history tour?
-You want people calling you?
-Sure. Call me anytime.
-You like the phone?
-The best time is between 6:00 and 9:00.
-I go to bed early.
-East Coast. Okay.
Listen if you can't afford a buggy tour
you're having a hard time,
struggling, call me.
I'mma make sure you go.
-I'm not gonna leave you stranded.
-You sure you want the lineup out the door?
If a person can't afford it and they want
to see the Everglades, I gotta help them.
-I got to.
-Okay.
And then the people
that can afford it, tip big right?
-Tip.
If you enjoy it give us a tip.
Okay.
So let me…
Have you been on Steve's buggy tour?
I have not been on Steve's buggy tour
but I heard it's really good.
I'm too busy running the motel,
and marina, and the restaurant.
I don't have time to do the fun stuff.
-We're gonna your restaurant right?
-Yeah. Best restaurant on the island.
-Is it the only restaurant?
-It's the only restaurant.
They don't mean nothing
just 'cause it's the only.
It's the best restaurant
as far as I'm concerned.
-You guys just feel like
you're in your own little isolated world?
Pretty much yeah.
Cut off from
the rest of Florida, the country.
Yeah.
We get like three good months of a bunch of
Northerners or tourists that come down and
let us know that we do live in paradise.
We do appreciate y'all. We love y'all.
Don't get it wrong. Don't get it twisted.
Nobody's coming in the summer right?
Just the diehards.
The mosquitoes are bad but
the fishing's great and there's nobody here
and you don't have to fight the crowds.
German tourists in the summer?
Tons of Germans.
They love this stuff.
They love suffering. Right?
I think it's in their history.
-They go to Death Valley in the summers.
-Yeah.
It gets like 110 degrees down here.
A hundred percent humidity and…
-That's why I look so young.
-[Steve] Hard to believe you're 68.
[trim motor hums]
[jeep engine starts]
Here you go, Steve.
Thank you, Peter. Thank you very much.
-Up to your place?
-Up to my place.
You're gotta love that.
Just roll down windows, everything simple.
-No problem.
-Simple gauges.
Holes in the floor
for the water to run out.
Oh right.
-Yeah.
-There you go. Look at that.
-I like that old tractor.
-That is cool.
This right here
is the highest point on the island.
-Oh here's your place.
-Here's my place.
Hey Pete is there a wood block
over there by that tree?
-Yep.
-Would you mind grabbing that for me?
Under the tire? Oh right here?
I'm gonna put it right underneath here.
Come on, Peter.
I like detailing.
You can tell.
Here's all my detail stuff.
I keep it in containers
where it don't get wet.
So that's it.
-So this is the place.
-This is the crib, Steve.
-This is it. This is where I sleep.
I give my master bedroom to my son.
-Is that you?
-That's me.
-That's me and my daughter.
-How old were you?
-Seven years ago.
This is me and my family.
That's the son I lost.
-Okay.
This is my father, really my grandfather,
but my father and me.
This is my great-grandfather.
Remember I told you across the river
from the Rod and Gun Club?
That's over there.
The very first tours
in the Everglades National Park.
That's the boat.
-He was giving the first tours?
-Very first.
I'm the very first to do it
in the Big Cypress National Preserve.
Very first.
This is my closet.
This is my kitchen.
You've got the fishing rods in here.
-Ready to go at all times Steve?
-Ready to go. Yep.
Then you can walk back here.
This was my son's truck when he got killed.
Um…
I had to pay off truck and get it.
It means a lot to me.
My son was 41 years old.
He was killed by a driver, an old man.
He has a son.
His ex-wife has a son.
And I just want to say,
people, hug your kids
every day and tell them you love them.
Because the last words
that I spoke to my son
was I love you, son.
And he said I love you, dad.
He was like my right arm.
I woke up this morning
and there was a thing
on Snapchat I think it was.
And I don't look at that stuff very much.
And it said Adam and his friends.
And it had a picture of him
and I looked at it and there was a video
of him by his airboat.
And his son was sitting on the airboat,
and he said,
"Alright, I'm coming to the camp.
See you later, Naples."
And I cried for 30 minutes.
-This morning?
-This morning.
I cried for 30 minutes. I couldn't stop.
Because of my son.
But I know like I said on the last video
that God has needed him.
'Cause he was a good man,
a good Christian.
He's up there. They built an army.
God's gotta fight. Things are going wrong
in this country in this world.
So God's gotta fight.
He's taken the young people.
Because I know he's lost
two or three of his best buddies
have gone his age up there.
So love your sons. Love your kids.
But let's go look at my… shop.
Excuse me. It's awful messy.
But this is my shop.
And I really love it.
We take really good care of it.
All my drills.
All my tools, I've got more tools
than most people could ever…
All VEVOR stuff, and I'm not blocking
for VEVOR but I'm gonna tell ya,
they're some of
the best tools I've ever used.
And they're half the price of normal tools.
So you're fixing,
'cause we're gonna get out at the end.
-We're getting out to your buggy operation.
-Yeah.
That's a whole different way
of seeing the Everglades.
-Yes. Whole different way.
-I can see one right here.
This is one that's not complete
or you use it for parts?
-No. This is gonna be.
Oh I wanted to say something.
I've got a GoFundMe account
for a handicap buggy.
-I'm trying to build a handicap buggy.
-Okay.
So that's what this is. This was donated
to me for starting on my handicap buggy.
-Okay. So you want to bring
handicapped people out there.
Free!
-Free?
-Free!
I want to build
a wheelchair ramp on this buggy
to get people in wheelchairs up here.
-Okay. GoFundMe for that.
Yeah. Please.
-And 100% of that money goes to this?
-A hundred percent!
There's a wheelchair ramp
that a guy donated to me
and we're gonna use parts
off of them to make one.
What's driving you to do that?
Why do you want to bring
handicapped people out?
My heart. My heart.
I got calls from people.
"Hey Captain Steve, I'm in a wheelchair,
could I get up on your buggy?
I'm going I don't have a way to do it.
But I can tell you what I have done.
I've called the National Park Rangers
and four or five of them
will come out there
and help lift me up on the buggy.
For free. Don't charge them nothing.
Right now if you're handicapped
we'll get you up on the buggy.
All of us… The park will come help me.
But the problem is
if I break down or something
you know you got to get off.
You want the ultimate
handicapped buggy machine.
Yeah. If I got a ramp
that goes up and down
if I break down I can lift the ramp
and they can roll across
to get on another buggy.
It's gonna be very safe.
But you just never know.
You use a buggy
in that mud and water and every day
you get break downs.
You can't help it.
-Steve these banyan trees
are beautiful huh?
Oh ain't they? You gotta
keep cutting them roots boy, if you don't…
-If you don't, what happens?
You see what happens.
-They just take over.
-They go into a tree.
[Peter] Yeah. They're like
in their own ecosystems, these trees.
This is the old Ted Smallwood's home,
the original home.
He owned the whole island at one time.
He owns the Smallwood store and museum.
That's his home. That's his original house.
-Gotcha.
-That's a little teeny thing.
Little teeny thing.
And here is the world famous Havana cafe.
-This is Aaron's place?
-This is Aaron's and David's. All right.
[Brown Eyed Girl by Van Morrison plays]
Do you smoke cigars?
-I don't. No. Do you?
-No.
I got one here.
They had a Cuban guy
rolling them and I got one.
I thought I might smoke it.
I thought, nah, better not
'cause it might take me back to the days
when I was a cigar smoker.
-This is a cool place.
-Yes.
-David.
-Hey how's it going?
How are you doing, David?
Thanks for coming all the way down
in the middle of the Everglades.
-The middle of everything.
-That's it.
This is where
the 10,000 islands end and Everglades
keeps on keeping on.
-You did an amazing job with this place.
-You think so?
It looks beautiful.
We're lucky
because it's been here for over 20 years.
Okay. So you bought it?
Yeah we started in the pandemic.
Right after they let it go.
-Aaron grew up here.
-Where'd you grow up?
Aaron's outside. I was on the East Coast
and I came to Everglades City
but I never knew about Chokoloskee.
And that was where I was like
during the pandemic I was like what?
Chokoloskee? It's across the bay
and you gotta come across the causeway
which is like old Florida vibes.
-It's super cool.
-Are you loving it?
Yeah. It's living our best life down here.
We got the island breeze.
It's a way the Florida Keys
used to be back in the '70s and '80s.
Small-town vibes.
Everyone knows everybody.
It's real.
The night sky is glorious.
Plus all these species of migrating sh*t
comes through here all the time.
Oh! Fishing is good year-round.
You got different things going on.
You got birds. I love it.
-Are you the chef?
I do the best I can.
Yes sir. Yes sir. Perfect man. Thanks.
-Thank you.
-Come back anytime.
-Aaron…
-Welcome to Havana Cafe.
-Wow this is your other hat you wear?
-Oh yeah.
Wow look at this.
Let me turn it around. Okay now I'm ready.
This is wild, man.
This is such a cool zone.
Peter!
No way, dude! [laughs]
[Peter] I've been looking for you.
I've been waiting for this day for years.
-No way!
-It's come brother.
Can I take a picture with you?
-What's your name?
-Nick.
Nick, what do you think of Chokoloskee?
It's my favorite place.
If it wasn't for your video,
one, my wife and I wouldn't have came here.
We just moved to Florida from Indiana.
We watched your video
while I was in Indiana.
-Are you serious?
-I said I have to go there.
-I'm gotta take a picture with you.
-Let's do it.
This is crazy.
I'm doing a video with Steve.
I don't know where he went.
I just saw him. I told him
I just saw you in a YouTube video too.
You're loving it?
I love it. I watched your video
with when you went to the Glades.
-With Harrison.
-Harrison. Yep.
And I was like, oh that place looks sick.
So we came down here.
I got lost with my daughter.
-Can I put the camera on her?
-Yeah yeah totally.
Okay.
Came down here with my daughter. Got lost.
I was like, I've seen this place before.
It was in your video.
And then ever since
we've been coming every week.
We're selling the house in Indiana.
And my wife's family is in Marco Island.
So we've been bouncing around,
we're probably gonna end up in Naples.
But yeah, this whole area, dude, I love it.
I wouldn't have known about this area
if it wasn't for your video.
I'm not kidding.
-You're in one now. You're in it.
-That's crazy.
These are your kids? These are my kids.
-This is my sister.
-Oh nice.
-How's the music?
-Incredible.
[Peter] The Manzies?
[Playing Wagon Wheel]
Thank you.
Nick…
You also did a video
in my hometown, Gary, Indiana.
-That's your hometown.
-That's where we left.
-Did I do it right or no?
-You did it perfect.
-No, you did it perfect.
-Okay cool.
-Take care, Nick.
-You too.
Aaron is this your guy's touch
or you guys bought it like this?
Oh the trees were here
but we put all the fun stuff in there.
-That's so cool.
-The birds we didn't put in there but…
You know the great thing about restaurants,
they're super easy businesses.
-Right?
-Yeah.
-Not?
-No.
-That's what we do.
-You do it? Hard, huh?
They're like,
"Buy a restaurant. It'll be fun."
"It'll be fun. Buy a restaurant."
You're here on a break.
-You're a nurse?
-Yeah.
And you're like
I just wanna chill out, for a little bit.
Taking a nice little break.
-What's better money, this or nursing?
I would say in about six hours here
I make about the same
that I would in a 12-hour shift nursing.
-Are you serious?
-[Aaron] They make good money here.
It depends on the day. We definitely
get busy and it does get stressful here.
You missed the lunch rush.
Every day from 11:00 to 2:00
we always have like plenty of people
-So I guess it's the only game in town.
-Yeah.
We do have a few places
down in Everglades City
but on Chokoloskee
this is the only restaurant.
[Aaron] Stone Crabs, hush Puppies, oh yeah.
We are the world capital of stone crabs
and we have
the best hush puppies on the island.
-What are Hush Puppies?
-Hush Puppies. Good question.
What are Hush Puppies Steve?
-They're a local local thing
they got corn and…
[Peter] These guys, hush puppies.
There's for your shells.
I don't want no crabs.
Let him have them.
You get all the crabs yourself.
-Steve, that's a true local,
he doesn't want crab.
-I eat plenty of it. You enjoy it.
You enjoy it.
-You know what?
-Talk to me.
Let's say a little lunch prayer.
Just a little one to yourself.
I'm gonna just say it to myself.
-Okay. You do that every meal, Steve?
-I try to.
Lord thank you for this meal,
and for the restaurant,
and thanks for Peter,
and… amen.
-Amen.
-That's a short one.
-Thank you, Steve.
-[Aaron] Chow down.
My granddaddy's prayer,
Ernest Hamilton, every year he would go,
"God thank you for this food.
In the name of Jesus, amen."
Everybody eat.
So fried?
-Fried.
-Corn?
They got flour, cornmeal, corn in it.
Some people put bell peppers.
It's a local thing.
Seafood and hush puppies go together.
They're excellent.
What do you want to eat?
-I'm fine.
-You don't want anything?
-No. Eat your crab.
-Serious?
Mmm. That's good.
What's your technique for these guys?
You just open them up
as much as you can.
Take it and try to get…
-As much as possible.
-Yeah this part.
Then you dip that.
Yeah.
And just
because there's a membrane in between it.
So you bite down until
you feel the membrane then just pull off.
And it's… not something
you get excited about anymore?
Take your time.
I get them any time I want them.
I got a…
-That's good ain't it? Huh?
-Mmm.
I think it's better without the sauce.
You like the sauce?
That's the Everglades… stone crabs.
The different areas or taste different.
Here they're better.
They're just better.
-It's just a nice thick meat.
-Yep.
-Sweet.
Now I'd dip that one.
Mm-hmm.
Is it unreal or what?
That's Everglades stone crab for you.
Now you go to Tampa or somewhere
and get their stone crab…
They don't touch it?
They don't touch our stone crabs.
They'll argue with you but I'm telling you
we got better stone crabs.
Mmm.
Look at these things.
Did you guys change these flags
or did you kept that as is?
-No, I put all this stuff up.
-This is all you?
I make this artwork here, the chandelier.
-Oh nice!
-I make bonsai trees.
-The flag? Who did the flag?
-There's a guy in Naples.
I told him to give me his name.
I do not know his name
but he does amazing work.
The boats are my uncle's.
He just passed away.
My aunt were married 81 years.
-Oh wow.
And then she passed away a month before.
-Your aunt?
-She just passed away, yeah.
How old was she?
94.
And he was 96. So yeah,
they had a wonderful life together.
Are you a regular here?
This is the Manzini's better half.
I follow Manzie. That's my guy.
Three years dating him.
Oh the musician. So you're a groupie?
Hi y'all.
Kind of like equipment manager.
-How long you been with him?
-Excuse me.
-Three years.
-Three years?
-I'm 80.
-You're 80?
-Yes.
-No you're not.
-Yes I am.
-Okay.
-I'm 80. He's 79.
And it's just new life.
I know. We're both widowed.
You've gotta smile.
That's the key.
And be happy for what you have.
And don't always want.
Amen. Amen.
He wrote this song.
He wrote this.
-He wrote this one?
-Yeah.
[Manzie plays]
[Peter] Oh wow.
Aaron, you're going full. That's crazy.
Cook it myself.
-That's crazy.
-You all right?
Yeah but that's crazy.
I don't want all that.
No this is yours.
There we go.
Got our world famous peel and eat shrimp.
-Oh nice.
-Our world famous Cuban sandwich.
We got our grilled shrimp.
Blackened shrimp.
You know what you ought to let me do?
Is bring you in bay leaves from the swamp.
-I got bay leaves.
-Absolutely.
-I'll bring them in.
[Peter] So what are you doing here?
Just straight up shrimp,
beans, rice, plantains?
Yeah, I told him that I like the shrimp.
And the rice and look what he made me.
-Oh that's what you want.
-I'll never eat it.
I can't. No way to eat all that.
That's one thing I can say about
is they just give so much.
Yeah, portions are big.
Portions are giant.
Wait till you taste it.
Yeah. Nice jumbo shrimp.
These aren't local though are they?
I don't know.
-No we don't have shrimpers around here.
-Okay.
Mmm.
Is that unreal or what?
What's his partner's name?
David.
So good. Oh you cooked this, Aaron?
-I cooked it today.
-Nice, Aaron.
-Where do you get the shrimp from?
-They are from the Gulf.
They are from the Gulf.
Our snapper is from the Gulf.
Our stone crabs are from the Gulf.
We do sell mahi-mahi
but I believe that comes from the Atlantic.
-Yeah.
-You went too far. This is unreal.
Oh, yeah.
Well you know we've gotta show y'all
what we can do here at Havana Cafe.
So my wife has to edit these videos.
She'll be watching the food
sitting at home.
And then that night she's like
we gotta go get the closest thing to that.
-I'll bring her down sometime.
-We can put you in the motel.
You do amazing work.
They got a clean motel.
-Ain't never been underwater.
-Yeah.
-That's a big deal.
-Yeah, big deal.
Never been… So many motels around here.
-They've been under?
-And they never do nothing.
It's moldy. You can smell it.
I always send everybody to his place.
-What's your place called?
-Parkway Motel and Marina.
Parkway Motel and Marina.
You do this?
You also have a bar in Fort Lauderdale?
Yeah. Thank God it runs itself.
I'm gonna have to take the Cuban to go.
I'll take a bite.
-You gotta dunk it
into the sauce of the shrimp.
-Take a bite first, you get a real taste.
-Okay.
-Have you ever ate a Cuban before?
-Mm-hmm.
So yeah we're…
-And then dip.
-Dip it. Oh my God yes.
You got to go…
-With the garlic and all the good stuff.
What's in the sauce here?
Salted butter, minced garlic,
a little bit of Old Bay,
and then we put our hot sauce in.
They got a killer hot sauce.
I forgot about their hot sauce.
This is fire.
This is better than any food I had in Cuba.
[Aaron chuckles]
You got the Rod and Gun Club you can go to.
You can go to River Wilderness.
River Wilderness has never been underwater.
River Wilderness. Yeah.
-And they're local.
-Yeah.
All the other ones have been
bought up by big corporations.
-Corporations.
-They've come here?
The guy from India.
-Hashish family.
-Hashish. Everything.
Key West all the way up the East Coast.
They own… Who's this family?
-Patels.
You know that's the name of almost
any Indian that's got money is a Patel.
I mean they're real nice people
but to come into a small town and buy…
-They've taken over.
-Restaurants.
Put you out of business
and then buy your business.
-Yeah.
-That's what they do.
One small airboat tour is left.
-That's it.
-In Everglades City.
All of them.
-Are you serious?
-All of them.
Except one in Everglades City.
Captain Doug.
Original Everglades Airboat.
And you've got Corey Billie's
That's the local and you got…
-So how did they manage…
So listen. I'm gonna tell you.
I'm gonna tell you.
They come into town and made friends.
They bought a little airboat tour.
They started two-for-one tickets.
So all these little companies
like Speedy's and them
they can't go two-for-one.
They take four people,
two of them's free.
They make $90 off of a ticket
and they put them out of business.
So then they buy them. Buy them out.
So they advertise
ride on Jungler's ride on Speedy's.
So you think you're riding
on a different… it's all the same.
There's that friction with big money
from the outside coming in.
Oh they bought the motels.
They bought everything.
The only motels are, you got Kenny's.
River Wilderness.
-Rod and Gun Club.
-Yup.
And I think that's it right?
He owns Everglades City Motel.
-Ivy House.
-He owns the Ivy House.
He owns the Everglades Motel.
Then he owns the Captain's Table.
And then he's trying to buy the old
Restaurant Depot and to tear that down
which is the train station
that was built a long time ago.
And because he's got so much money
he's the Everglades City…
The Everglades National Park
Boat Tours he's got.
Took the boat tours. He owns it all.
Okay so if a big corporation
buys something like here,
it's not for sale by the way, right?
Absolutely not to him. [laughs]
Okay. But then the food quality
is gonna take a turn south really quick.
Just like the airboat tour business.
Yeah we're lucky that he does not do food.
-Okay.
-Because food is you know…
I'm just saying not him, but anyone.
They come in,
they're trying to maximize profits.
Yeah.
-It's not about the community.
-Correct.
-Your face isn't here every day.
You don't care.
You just wanna make money.
-I love my employees.
-And then the soul of it goes.
He loves locals.
He lives right across the road from me.
We holler out at each other.
Chokoloskee's 4th of July,
They put on the… And New Year's,
they put on the biggest show.
Bigger than the fireworks in Everglades.
They do, out of their pocket.
-Nice.
-I love fireworks. What can I say?
They fire off. It's unbelievable.
Boom boom boom.
Some unreal fireworks. I love it.
[Peter] Take care, bye.
This is another one of my trees
I made out of aluminum wire.
-Oh nice. So you're an artist.
-Yeah.
-That's cool. Are you selling this stuff?
-Yeah, yeah.
[man] Hey, I saw you.
[Peter] Okay.
Yeah, yeah.
I just took Captain Steve's buggy tour.
Yeah, we're with Steve right now.
You want to see Steve again?
Steve and I are making a video today.
Yeah we had his cousin driving
I think it was.
Oh okay.
Yeah.
That's why we even called him.
-This is the real, the original.
-This is the real?
This is the real one.
-How are you folks doing?
-That other guy was a character too.
That was… oh I… we're doing…
I went out in the boat today.
-Oh you guys went with Cheryl.
-Yeah.
-How'd you like him?
-He was great.
-He's my cousin.
-Yeah.
He got a bad review. I can't…
Yeah yeah. He was all bummed out.
Yeah we're bummed out
'cause he gets such good reviews.
No we loved him. He was very personal.
Would you go on there
and maybe leave a review for us?
We definitely will.
Well I appreciate it. Thank you.
-You're welcome.
-It was nice meeting y'all.
All the best.
We watched the one on Citrus…
-You were up in…
-Immokalee? Apalachia?
-Yes.
We're staying in Citrus Springs
because of that too.
Oh nice. Cool.
-Hey we appreciate your business.
-Thanks for watching. Appreciate it.
[music from the bar fades out]
[Steve] This guy
flying this Confederate flag,
he cares to give them to people.
He's from New York.
-No way.
-Oh he's straight New Yorker.
Talks like a New Yorker
but he can't stand New Yorkers.
Southerner at heart.
I guess is what you'd say.
-What is a Southerner at heart?
How would you explain that?
A southerner at heart
is where you love things
that are old school and Southern
cook out of iron skillet
you know how to make a fire.
It's not just the way you talk.
It's that in your heart you love the South.
You don't get in people's business.
You don't pay attention
to what other people do.
And you're fixing to find out
how a real person is right now.
The Daniel's Compound,
this old man
is the best thing in the world.
I love him like a dad.
So let's go get him.
[Steve] Daryl!
[knocks on door]
He ain't here.
Car's here. His golf cart's here.
[Peter] "Beware of attack father."
Hey where's Daryl at?
[man] Boat ride.
-That's Daryl's brother.
-Let's go talk to him.
Come on! Let's sit down on the porch.
Sit down. Somebody wants to talk to ya.
-We got storm clouds coming in.
That ain't gonna bother nobody.
In Florida they say the more south
you go the more north it gets
until you get really south.
Then it gets really South.
We're about south as far as you can go,
unless you go to Key West.
-How you doing sir?
-This is Cheryl Daniels.
-This is Peter.
-Peter how you doing?
I'm making a video of your friend today.
-Oh okay.
-Yeah we're getting into it.
-Well you coulda' done worse.
-[Steve chuckles]
-Coulda' done better.
-Am I doing better that you're in it?
-Them people loved you.
-Huh?
Them people I talked to them
that rode in the tour. They loved you.
They all loved me
as long as I don't talk about myself.
I got a bad review.
I heard about that.
That really bummed you out.
Yes it did.
Don't worry about it.
You're gonna get some people
that are unhappy with everything.
I understand that
but you don't understand me.
I go out of my way on them boat rides.
You know what I mean?
Let me get your mic off.
Do you mind if I put this on your pocket?
Yeah it's recording whatcha gonna ask me.
Whatever you want to say.
I don't really have any plans.
I just try to learn from the locals.
Yeah I gotcha.
Well most people,
first thing they want to talk about
is hauling marijuana back in the day.
-We already talked about that.
Yeah and I don't get into that.
You know what I mean?
I know what I did was wrong
but I'm not ashamed of it.
-You understand what I'm saying?
-I understand.
And I spent 25 years
in prison because of it.
Eight one time in Eglin.
Steve was in there with me
and I said I don't want to talk about it.
Listen to me.
-Yeah you don't want to
and you're talking about it.
But now that you're talking about it,
25 years…
I don't like to get into detail.
I don't like naming names.
I don't like doing that.
I went back in
and I got turned in
for killing deer out of season.
-Killing deer out of season?
Yeah and a very good friend of mine
was with me. At least I thought he was.
He wanted to kill the deer
but he couldn't hit him
so I took the rifle and I shot him.
And he told the game wardens
that he felt it was his duty.
-So you went to prison for killing a deer?
-Then I went back in.
The last time I went,
I went 17 and a half years.
-What was that for?
-Marijuana.
What would you say Steve?
Was it marijuana?
Or they said it was cocaine
but it wasn't.
Okay. So as Steve said
federal prison is like Boy Scout camp.
-Would you say that?
-Saved my life.
-Saved your life? How?
Because I'm a man of God now.
And I got that in there mostly.
And I read the Bible so many times
I don't even tell people.
-I was talking about Eglin.
Oh yeah Eglin was…
Eglin was a good place to get in trouble.
That's what I told him.
It was a good place to get in trouble
because we had money.
And when we had money our girlfriends
lived right down the road.
The people that we worked for on the base
he ratted me out too.
And we'd pay him $50 a day.
He'd drop us off with our girlfriends.
He'd pick us back up
at the end of the day.
So we had it made.
And it was all a game in prison.
It was a game.
I never ever…
and I'll tell you this flat out right now
I never did a hard day
in prison in my life.
25 years?
Never had a hard day.
'Cause I accepted it.
-Hardest part was
being away from your family.
Well that's normal.
But no, I never had a hard day of prison.
The wardens weren't hard on you?
Every one of them liked me.
-You were buddies?
'Cause I was a standup man.
The people that I worked for
and I ain't giving no names on that
they turned me in.
The kingpin, he turned me in.
When I went to court they started asking me
about this and that and nothing.
And I told him
I says I'm not gonna rat.
He said well if you just give us
these boys' names that turnt you in.
Your bosses. He says you won't do a day.
Steve was in court…
-You weren't gonna snitch?
I wouldn't snitch on nobody.
There ain't nobody made me do anything.
I knew right what I was doing.
Nobody held a gun to my head
and said do it.
So I'm gonna go
put somebody else in prison,
ruin their life
because it's something I didn't know.
-You know it's a familiar story.
I did a story with a guy
out in Humboldt County, California.
A lot of marijuana
comes from that part of the country.
And they offered the same thing.
They said, if you snitch
you don't have to go in and he had a wife.
He wouldn't snitch.
The kingpins that I worked for,
the number one man,
they brought it, and they got it,
and hired me to bring it in.
They snitched on me.
And by doing that now
they did seven years.
I did 17 and a half.
We lived the life of Riley here
if you will didn't we Steve?
We had this island.
But when we was young and we were kids
we didn't have to have chaperones
watching us as we went around the island.
We'd be out there on the edge
of them islands with mangrove trees
with an oar or a stick in our hand
gigging fish having a good time.
Everybody watched out
for everybody else's kids.
-If we got hungry, you stopped in…
-First house we come to.
-There's Darrell.
-Darrell!
-He don't mind talking.
-I appreciate it.
I feel uncomfortable talking about it.
You're great.
-Thank you Cheryl.
Don't give me a bad report now.
[chuckles]
I'll give you a call after a while.
-I love you.
-I love you too, son.
My grandkid,
he's doing something I'm proud of.
He got out of here.
He went to North Carolina
and trained for the power companies.
A lineman. He's a lineman.
He's my great-grandson.
I'm glad he had enough to step out,
get out of here. You know what I mean?
There's nothing here for him.
-So you would want
the young generation to get out?
Let's just put it like this,
the only thing here is to run airboats
and we don't know
how much longer that'll last.
You understand?
-How's this?
-That's great.
My daddy and mother,
have you told them about Fakahatchee?
-Nope.
There's an island up this way about
eight miles called Fakahatchee Island.
My family homesteaded that island.
It's a 60-acre island
that the Indians made.
Now the government in the middle '60s
decided they gon' move
everybody off of all the islands.
So they moved my family off of the island.
Before that a hurricane come through
and tore the schoolhouse up down there.
So my daddy and mother
had my oldest brother at that time.
So they moved in here
to put the boy in school.
Then I was born on the island
after they got here.
But whenever they come here,
soon as they got down here,
they bought this acre of land right here.
Had two livable homes on it
and me and my brother still own it.
I've lived right here all my life.
I've never lived anywhere else.
I was in the construction business
for quite a few years back in
about '79,
somewhere in that area.
-Okay.
-So I built my home then.
But we grew up as commercial fishermens
till I was about in my 40s.
Then that's when the government…
When the government
made us all move off of all the islands.
They also stopped our way of living.
They said your commercial fishing is over.
You got to go find another way
to make a living and we did.
And money-wise
it probably didn't hurt us any at all.
But I look at fishing like a lot of people.
Like I think farmers look at farming.
-It's in their blood. You understand?
-Yeah.
A lot of the boys here
when they stopped us from fishing
a lot of them didn't know nothing else.
I did. I owned a big boat.
I stone crabbed for 23 years
and the construction business.
I was a workaholic all my life.
I mean I worked.
[Steve] Still is.
And I still do it.
It's just my way of life.
But no, I've lived a good life here.
It was a good place to grow up.
I was born in '42.
-Okay. Good for you.
The only thing that changed
was what we could do you know.
We were…
and I'm talking all of us boys,
Steve, all of us.
We were sort of
we weren't a wild bunch.
But we liked to hunt a lot
and
drink a lot. We drank a lot.
[Peter chuckles]
But life's changed.
I hadn't had a drink in, what,
30 years or something like that.
When my son died
I had a 50-foot boat and I was out of town.
He called me wanting to go fishing
with three other boys.
And they borrowed my boat
and went out into the Gulf.
That was 30 years ago
and we've never heard of them again.
So…
-Nobody knows what happened?
-Nobody.
It was the biggest search
that ever went on down here.
-Nothing?
-We never found nothing.
-Just like they disappeared.
-Did they go out at night?
Yeah it was night and it was blowing
that weekend that they went.
So nobody really knows what happened.
It just…
But…
it's hard when you lose people.
But think of the thousands and thousands
and thousands that's losing kids today.
You know?
So the world is full of heartache.
We have to live with it.
And one thing
when I was young
I said, you know,
I can't let life stop me from living.
So I sort of set myself up
not to get hurt.
Do you understand?
And no matter what happened to me
I had to keep going.
And I did.
So it's sort of harden your heart.
Do you understand?
-You keep busy not to think about things?
-That's right. You stay busy.
Keep your mind on your working and stuff.
And don't focus on
the bad things in your life.
I'll be 84 on the 16th of April.
How do you stay in such good shape?
Oh I'll tell you what I blame it on.
I've worked beyond the call of duty.
I mean I've worked hard all my life.
And I blame it on that.
It's just staying in shape.
-So you think just whatever your pain,
whatever bad things happen in life,
just drive through it with work?
Or do you think that's a coping mechanism,
that you actually have to
do the time and sit through it?
I set myself up no matter what happened,
even losing the kid,
not to grieve over it a lot.
Do you understand? Keep going.
I'll give you an instance.
Right here,
my daddy and mother had a restaurant
and a beer joint right there.
One night on full moon
I walked right here right here.
And I said, you know, I was talking to God.
I said God what's it going to be like
when they're gone?
I could see them in there.
A few months later
I walked back out and stood here.
The moon was full and I looked there,
they were both dead.
I said now God I know.
I said now
the family is gonna fall on me.
In other words
we counted on daddy and mother.
Now the family is going…
they counted on me after that.
So I had to set myself up for that.
It weren't good.
But it makes things
a little harder in life too, you know.
How are you doing right now?
Real good. I'm doing good.
-I lost my wife five years ago.
-I'm sorry.
But again…
Uh…
I keep going.
I just keep going.
And you got guys like Steve
you've known your whole life.
-That's cool to have.
-And I got family around.
My grandkids live right here.
Two of them right over here.
My daughter lives right up the road here.
-So it's a strong community?
-Yeah.
We're family people.
Something happens,
you guys tribe together here no problem.
[Steve] He's the first person
I come to when my son got killed.
He's the first person.
I woke up,
went a little bit of sleep
and drove over here.
First person.
And my question was what am I gonna do?
Tell me 'cause I know he's lost a kid.
You're gonna do the same thing I done.
You're gonna set yourself up
to make it through it.
And that's what we done.
You know I'm real good.
I'm still a Christian today.
God is number one in my life.
And I'm happy.
-A good Christian.
-I'm happy.
[country music]
[Peter] We're pretty far.
What was that a 30-minute drive?
Yeah or longer, yeah.
We're a ways.
There's my buggies.
-You got two of them.
Yeah I just put
a new fan and stuff on this one.
Man does it run sweet.
The buggy tour.
-The grand finale here, the buggy tour.
This one looks professional.
This is an $80,000 swamp buggy
if you had to have it built by…
I'm sorry I can't remember his name.
He just passed away and he was
the best buggy builder there ever was.
What do you think?
Let's do it Steve.
We're gonna have
a beautiful time.
[engine starts]
-[Steve scoffs]
-[Peter laughing] Oh he just got hosed on.
-Musta rained down here.
-It don't look it though, does it?
-No. No.
Steve, what got you into the buggy tours?
I worked for the National Park Service
and there was never ever
a swamp buggy tour in the Big Cypress.
They never allowed it.
Not saying that people didn't do it though.
Sneak in and carry people.
But I was working for them
and they was talking about
starting a swamp buggy tour.
I loved it. I love buggying.
I just love buggying man.
I love them woods.
Right now it's dry season
so of course we're not gonna see no water
but it's beautiful out here.
That's an air plant. It's a bromeliad.
It just attaches itself to the tree.
It doesn't grow in
and it just don't hurt anything.
It's like its own little ecosystem.
Right.
And the pine trees you see
are called slash pines.
-So this fills in with water?
Oh it'll be knee deep.
-Knee deep?
-Knee deep.
That's why we're so high?
That's why we gotta
build the buggies high and tall like this.
-And this is coral reef down here?
-No.
-What is it?
-It's limestone.
We call it cap rock.
But this was underwater at one time.
10,000 years ago.
-10000 years?
-It was all ocean.
This is where it's at Steve.
Put the feet out
sit back in the comfortable chair,
drift through the Everglades.
-Are you comfortable?
-I'm getting super comfortable, Steve.
I got five pounds in each one of my tires.
-Where it rides real soft over these rocks.
-Yeah, super smooth.
[Peter] I've taken a love
to the Everglades. Big Cypress.
-Why?
'Cause first impressions,
it's not that impressive to be honest.
Once you spend a little time
it starts to come out.
Clyde Butcher says it.
He's a friend of mine.
We've worked together
on raising money for the Fakahatchee.
He said you can drive by it every day.
Until you stop and get off in it
you don't know about the Everglades.
-Yeah exactly.
I mean you ride up and down 41
but until you get on a buggy
and walk or get to ride with me
with a person
that's born and raised in it
and can explain
all the different things to you,
it ain't no fun.
-It's old Florida.
-Old Florida.
Which is almost gone right?
Almost gone.
This little corner of it is holding on.
-Forever.
-'Cause it's protected.
-Because it's a park.
-National park.
-Yeah.
If it wasn't we'd be Walmart.
We'd be pulling up here
to get a 12-pack of beer.
-Right.
-There's a bromeliad growing.
Look there's the prairie.
-Oh yeah.
-This is…
[Peter sighs with relief]
[silence]
[Peter] That's a special thing huh?
In a loud world.
-What you just done is special.
That's why I love the Everglades.
The Everglades is millions of acres.
And the Everglades runs from
Disney World, south.
You know all that expansion
all the way down to here
to the Keys is the Everglades.
Millions of acres.
It's water.
Water is what it's all about.
Purifying water.
The Everglades is a giant water filter.
Millions of people get their water
from underneath the ground here.
Millions.
Miami feeds off of it.
You know that's why it's so important
to save the Everglades.
Like all this runoff.
See, the big Cypress is a big bowl.
We don't get no water
from Lake Okeechobee,
and Lake Kissimmee,
and all the farm runoffs.
We don't get that. It's all rain.
The water that comes out of here,
even the water that comes down
from Lake Okeechobee,
and feeds through the sawgrass,
it all goes out to the Gulf.
And at the same time that's happening
the good Lord has made it
to where fish
have their spawn at that time.
So this brings out
little microbes
for the small fish to eat on.
So it all works.
And it's just…
It goes one inch every mile
from the Gulf north.
That's how far the ground goes up.
It's like one inch a mile.
It's a little lean.
You know what it is too Steve?
The sky here. The clouds.
This is one of the only national parks
that's a night sky park.
I do nighttime afternoon tours.
When it gets dark if there ain't
no clouds in the sky or a fire burning,
you can reach up and pick a star.
-Yeah.
-It's unbelievable.
It's unbelievable.
…the Chokoloskee, first thing he does
is open his window to smell the mud.
And I told him I said
Stevie does the same thing
when we come over that bridge.
She rolls that window down
and smells that mud.
I sure do.
[Peter] You're in Chicago
but you're gonna move back.
I'm in Chicago but I'm moving back.
You can't help yourself but come back.
-Stevie what does it look like
around you right now?
-The streets?
-[Stevie giggles]
-This is what it looks like.
-There we go.
It's about 38 degrees.
So it's kind of warm
for up here but still cold.
She misses me.
I miss my baby. That's my baby.
-Steve's a good time, as you know.
I usually call and talk to him
every day around this time.
-Every day.
-But I'll let you have him.
Okay. I can take a moment.
-I can go chill over there.
-No, we don't mind.
I love you Stevie. I miss you.
-I love you Dad. Call me when you get home.
-Okay.
-All right. Bye.
-Bye.
That's my baby.
Can I talk about you?
-You want to talk about me?
-I want to talk about you.
Go for it.
Well Peter, I greatly appreciate
what you've done.
And I want to tell you
from the bottom of my heart
I want to thank you because
you have helped me with my business.
I was having a hard time. I really was.
I mean I was making it
but I wasn't making it.
You know summer's coming along.
I got a lot of bills.
And without…
If you wouldn't have helped me
I would have had to
end up selling my Jeep or something
to get through the summer.
-From the last video?
-From the last video that you made.
-Okay.
-Really helped.
Well that was just luck. We ran into you.
I mean it was luck,
whatever you want to call it.
I say it was God sent.
Because the good Lord knows
that I'm trying to do good.
I really am.
Trying to get by and you come along.
I wasn't gonna do it, Peter.
I wasn't gonna do it.
That's when I asked you how many people
and you said a couple thousand.
Then I thought in my brain
well you know what,
I wish somebody would help me.
So maybe if I put him
on a buggy ride and helped him
he'll get more people watching, you know?
So then I said
come on hop on the buggy. Let's go.
'Cause I was thinking of you. I didn't know
you have over four million viewers
and God the people started calling.
And it's like I told my daughter
I said I can't even believe this.
And somebody tells me, "Steve, you know
how many people that watch his videos?"
No I don't know nothing about YouTube.
But man, you're the best, Peter.
-You're the best.
-No, Steve, you're the best.
People loved you and I got so many messages
and like,
you got to meet up with Steve again.
And I love to be able to promote
a local small business from a guy like you
that lives and eats,
and breathes, the thing.
-So my pleasure, Steve.
-You know what else I want to say?
-I want to thank the people.
-Yeah.
I want to thank all of you
that has booked with me
and watched his videos
and called me, I've had a lot of calls.
Call my home. Call my office number.
And if you just want to
ask about some questions I don't mind.
About 6:00 to 9:00 at night
'cause I go to bed early
and I'm always at home.
You sure you want your number out there?
Well yeah. I want people to call me.
If you want something like this yourself
link is down below.
Give Steve a call or an email.
Set it up.
Other Everglades videos,
I'm gonna put them around here.
Steve you're the best.
-Appreciate you brother.
-Thank you, Peter.
I really appreciate it guys.
Thank y'all very much.
-Thanks for coming on that journey.
-And God bless all of you.
Until the next one.
[country music]